uh site. one break down things like that. and then I have Ivan. and there's a guy I'm pulling from um Galadi who um will be the service team. so they will rotate on a monthly basis between the three sites. and as my planning standing now, the implementation of the permanent guys on site will be Monday. Um we've had training with him on Mapsoft which is the program that we're going to use to um uh uh uh monitor our work, capture our work. So it's available for everyone. On the tablets to see yes. I've had a small glitch on the tablets. They were Windows-based. And uh Mapsoft system is iOS uh based. So we're actually in the process of coming to the mind tomorrow to get the signatures that's required for the um cell phones so they can make them on site. so there's actually not a huge delay. So so the cellphones the the actual ICASSA, there's a ICASSA certificate you That's what we've been busy with yesterday and this morning to get the ICASSA certificates on the paperwork. So when I get to the mind tomorrow for the signatures that all of those ICASSA paperwork things are in in line. Peter, Peter must sign that off, hey? Peter, yeah. Yeah, Peter. So it's one of them. And then um So this, we can go through the actions and see what I just want to if you give my two cents. What I found, can you please send me a uh overall of the different types of of of systems we've got at Lack Rock. Okay. I don't know what what what we've got. So what we've implemented now, I've put the file there next to you. So if you want to have a look at it. This is what every technician is receiving today. This is what we've been doing on the past two weeks. where that every technician signing for this today will have this file making this Bible. So in the file you will find the letters that goes into the system, the nozzle specs on what specs needs to be, how far, how wide, all of that. And then every machine that we've got on record um from your site, the drawing of The drawing as well. That you must take this and just analyze this. But okay, maybe just step back. I mean, we've got This is now for all the all the different types of systems will be in this one. This is for all the different types of of machinery types. This is all the machinery types drawings with the nozzles and Because this needs to be signed off by the 241. This is great. And then we can load it on our system. Yeah, yeah. But yeah, and but what I'm asking is what different types? Because we've got the 210 and the 110. Yes. Yes. We've got the SCHN. That's the older systems. Yeah. Then we've got MS1, that's also the older system. Then we've got the 110, 210. And now there's a um MS2 Plus. Okay. The MS2 Plus is also an ISO um certified system. So we I need to know how many machines that you know With what systems? what systems Because And I I know Rudi sent a mail to Andre Back with regards to what, you know, the confidence or the level of of of of confidence on fires on on the systems got that we've got in place and I did the same for for Kumani. And um the we also got there where we had different systems. I mean there they were doing it six-monthly. Okay. We are reducing it now to three-monthly with the new scope. But it's important to have a signed-off document of each type. I mean we we know what the right is, but at least we've signed off, this is how it should be tested, right? Then But uh but this on that point I've also as part of the actions is for them to go and verify that we've got the right In other words, based on the risk assessment. In other words, that whole process, how do we establish this this particular design for this particular machine must be based on a risk assessment. So that you've got a risk assessment. From the risk assessment, update if need be the design. Like for example, we did update we got a risk assessment. From the risk assessment, updated the S2 design. So we've added some additional nozzles. And and also the newer S2s are coming with the LVS, which is the liquid. So we actually want to upgrade the others to the liquid system as well. But okay, maybe I think you've covered most of this. But this is you know, important. But the uh the why I'm asking about the different systems, the 210 system. The you know we had an incident at at the due did you share that with this mind that we also update all of their systems with the heat shielding on the on the discharge Yeah. Because I will be very disappointed if it wasn't done, because I must be No, it wasn't done. And but our OHT meetings also stop. Yeah, but I mean the new And Kenru is was one. Now we we actually we had a tire track dozer, not a track dozer, a tire a wheel dozer. That burnt completely down, not because of the system. Well, actually, Conrad threw the block something that shouldn't have happened. Conrad threw the block that actually hit the the power cable. Can you believe it? The power cable. The power to the to the starter. It was on the cold side of the engine. Not on the hot side of the engine. That make a arc and the fuel line was on top here and eventually burnt. But 17 what 18 seconds, 20 seconds, then the thing must activate. Now, these machines is got electronic electrical activation. And when it started to burn it activated after 17 or 18 seconds, the a wire the communication wires was burnt off. And that then it didn't activate. And then the guy went outside and struck the unit and it also didn't activate because he didn't do it hard enough. And I don't know if we're actually doing that training here. So I'm just sharing lessons learned, but then there was a standard rolled out by Sibanya, and I actually shared it with the Northern Cape Mind Managers Association whereby you the the the wires between those electric wires needs to be I mean that's why I couldn't understand Ainsel. There should be a risk assessment and this is a high risk. If this thing burns, nothing will go off automatically. So there's now a new some some uh shielding. Can't believe we didn't do it. So yeah, that's one of the things we must just look at. Rudi, did this happen on your side? Yes, yes. I'll send you the thing in in in it was in April. April this year. Yeah, I remember there was a fire. I didn't know it was actually a full full blown. That thing burnt. Also in April. R1 was in August. It was in April. Yeah. I think I've got the dates. All right. But yeah, that that's a concern to me. Yeah, I mean your one company cannot do this. So I just want to I think all of this is great. Standard must be in place, it must be signed off. We must also sign off their inspection what what are they going to inspect on a monthly basis? We must sign off that we approve this. And then also the inspection on a on a three monthly, the service. We must sign off. Remember previously we signed it off, I signed it off. And there were changes that we said because some of the machines are done in not always in the workshop. And I know it's difficult for you guys. And then we said you should actually have a have an accumulator a small accumulator that you can blow out the the you know, the nozzles or or some device. That was part of the update. So we we've been done just we we signed this off and we signed those two documents off. Then we know at least we we we signed off what they should check, right? Okay. If I can sorry, maybe just intervene there. On the new checklist going in now. Um you you tick off uh what the system is. So that the technician uh checks. So when he does his service, he'll have certain compulsory fields. Um I'll just ask him to send it through for approval for us. We we have to approve. Although we're not the we're not the specialist, but as the responsible engineers, we need to say, hey, you know, we agree with this. Yeah. Or maybe add this or whatever. Yes. And then I just want to add there there's there's three checks in total. So there's the technician service, um that gets done when obviously when he services and he takes pictures or video or even a voice clip of 15 seconds. Then um when Quinton does his over inspections on the machines, there's a different uh a check for that, which he will complete. And then when I get on site by weekly is my plan and I do a random check wherever then I do a third one, which is more in detail. I I I don't want to yeah. And I I want to just add and I I want to go there, but So, okay, say what. But um it was very important that we we need to set you need to send out the instructions saying that if there's any major component change out. And I think it was like that there. Then That must be recommissioned again. It must be recommissioned. So we must say a major component saying at the you know that can that because the guys take away the fire wires, they do all of this to take out the engine. It has to be recommissioned before the machine gets This is part of the commissioning. And then we need to train our own guys. Yeah, both of this. Is it part of this also to you know to be more understanding. To understand the system and also what we said was that uh even our guys when they do services can do a basic visual check. I mean you check all the nozzles are in place, they are pointed in the right direction, the wires are there, the panel light is on. Basic stuff. The pressure is where it should be and things like that. Um but I think with this that I have a responsible person on each site. We will cover a lot of those component changes and things going out without being noticed or know about it. So that's the one reason why I want a responsible person on each site. Okay. This is my last point and sorry. I want I don't I just what I asked in the in the scope at at Kumani. I just don't we don't just want Kenru to to look at the system. That's why the inspection checklist is important. We want them to look at fire risks. And maybe they because they deal with this a lot. They must say, hey, so I don't know if you guys can do that, but I that's what I'll put in the scope for the other side. Okay, um, I can see there's a you know, incorrect. They can also look at possible fire risks. During the service. During the service, that they can see, hey, he's you know, because they deal with that. I don't know if the guys are trained to do that or not. So in the sorry, but in the training we had Friday on the new system that we want to implement. That's why we added the 15-second voice note. And I've included it in our training for yesterday. I've included it in the training specifically that if there's an oil leak, or if there's a hydraulic hose that's leaking or whatever, they just leave a voice note. And then if we do the checks in the morning, I can listen to five guys' voice notes and then if I pick up that something's off on a machine, then we can take it in for So this is we had an independent guy company that did our before actually went to Kumani, last year August. Independent guy, this can what? ICMSA. No, no. This other company that D&R was pushing it so they were rather a controversial company. But they actually did a good job. And they had a checklist of of fire risks. Um and I'm going to share that with you guys. And I mean that's the things we can say, please include this in your monthly inspection, or your whatever, as a visual. Just check. Is there electrical wires close to a heat source, you know, the engine? Is there this? It's simple stuff. But I think that can then we can, you know, it's not just I'm looking at the fire system or fire. We must prevent the bloody fires you know, all this start. What I also now wrote down here. MSDSA must come with our guys and also do the over inspection, as agreed. Now, I will ask Henk that he learned the guy who's in charge on that site, just with general knowledge as well. But we need to add that to the checklist. Yeah, yeah. And you can ask the MSDSA guy then, can he give us one or two or three points that we can add to the checklist, just to check on general fire risks. You know, is there open wires? And not, he mustn't go underneath the machine, whatever. In his when he does the inspection on the system at the heat source, because that's where, you know, is there potential fire risks? I just if we can add that, it will it will help us. I've never in my time we've had lots of fires. Ask these guys. Um We've never had a yes. We never had a fire. The suppression always worked. Okay. Except the one for for for the skaker. The skaker didn't work. So and there were also shortcomings. But again, we the fire wouldn't have still have started because of it was a dead short on the short, right? But we've put in other things to to mitigate that, or fuses. But yeah, my history with all of the the the was it the HCC and the RT that's burned there by by them. It's always worked. But I think we we are we we must make sure the system is right, but we must look so something doesn't happen. Can you just come in and apologize for my side, please. For my side I think I've been the one who's been most vocal in terms of the poor service that we are receiving. Okay. So before Greg and Rudi had a meeting with Kenru, I had a meeting with Hans and his team and 22. And we detailed all the challenges that we are having and what's going to happen to get the things done. From that meeting, yes, there was confidence to say okay we are going in the right direction. Then there was the meeting Greg and Rudi had and the feedback that they gave was also positive to say we are going in the right direction. But from then up until now, the service has just gone in the opposite direction. Things have just been falling apart. And what I was actually doing now, I was just noting it. I've even told Greg to say, I'm going to put it in CRs against Kenru. For example, one of the things that we had in UV 59, which Jacques has mentioned to say the system has always worked. Last week we had a machine which actually the system activated, but it did not discharge. It did not discharge in the heat camp. So that machine two days prior, Kenru worked on it. I'm not sure what they did. They did the rerouting of the linear wire and everything. And they rerouted it close to the exhaust uh pipe. Then it actually melted. And then the system actually activated. But now it showed on the display to say that the system is activated. But on the nozzles, nothing actually activated. So also that machine they could start it. They only picked it up afterwards to say it's actually a Kenru um fire suppression activation. But they could start the machine, which it's supposed to cut out uh all the power. The machine is not safe. So supposed to start. But UV 59 if it had a issue, that machine would not have activated. And the feedback that was actually given to the guys on site was to actually say these canisters with the powder or the liquid, because the machine has been there for a very long time, it has actually hardened. So that's why it's not uh um discharging. Then the report came. We got another reason to actually say because of vibrations or whatever it is, it was leaking, which Juan counted it and then they said they're going to get a different report. But no, sorry, it was William. For two weeks, he never got a report. The report then he got was the incorrect one. So that's the first machine UV 59. Then LDO 577. That machine stood on Sunday with the system activated and they don't know why it actually activated, but it went off. But up until yesterday last night when Johan was complaining to say, when are we going to sort out this machine? Then they said they do not have the recharging um LVS or whatever for the machine. So I think Hans you actually stepped in to say okay, you're going to get someone in. But the machine was already reported on Sunday. So it took two, three days later to actually get it done. RT 40, the system activated on 13 10, 2025. But also, it didn't discharge. It just showed. But why are you concerned about this? You would have reported all these things. And I'm surprised if you are writing it down because we've reported them, we've actually asked for feedback. We've actually asked for those reports, the fuel reports to say, what is actually happening? And we are not getting them. And that is why my frustration actually comes in to say, we are asking for the service and it's not actually coming in. So it was reported to you Hans and then the last mail Johan sent to Willem and Gerhard. I'm not sure if you are aware of Yeah, I I I made a I I replied yesterday on a mail but I was maybe I was confused with the Land Cruiser that was standing. Yeah. Yeah, because I went to Rudi, they report it's been reported. So Johan is to Hans. He knows about it. Whenever there's a machine that's standing, we report it. Quintin, tell us what's happening. If Quintin we don't get joy, we go to Hans. If we don't get joy from Hans, we send it to the next person. Even that response was disappointing, because that person says, no, I'm not on site, I'll get back to you after two days or something. No, there's a That's the response from God. On the email, you can check it. I will I will I will go through that mail, because it's not the way. I mean, you know me a long time. So Anthony was on 22. He was in charge of We can uh he he's suspended at this stage. He was a lead technician there and that was the guy. So, yeah, I don't know what's going to happen to him. But uh he he He got the spares on site. I don't know why he didn't refill. This is my view and I have to go. I mean, Kenru does this is not on. You can see the frustration. Yeah. No, no. We If something like like this should happen, it's going to be, you know, no, no, it's us. It's not Kenru, it's us. So, please send us a list of all the systems in in in in in and if there's a Then we need to go to SK, we need to go and activate another unit that with and we see if it works or not. All right. Um so that we can understand what's the way forward. Are we going to replace these things with with other types of of of of systems or what? So sorry, just before you go, also, in ZC182, brand new machine from Van der Walt. So from the onset the machine is delivered to site, Gerhard, who's not even a specialist on the fire suppression systems. He actually picked up to say some of the plugs were actually not connected, not routed correctly and some of the nozzles are actually blocked. It's against the SA steel. But let's let's just stop there. And this is how how I know it. If those machines come from from Van der Walt, then they install that, Ainsel and Jobuk. Then these guys doesn't even look at it. But that's why we put in a part of the commissioning things, which is now Gerhard here to go through it. But I say there's somebody of Kenru needs to also go through it there. Because then they don't take ownership of it. They then and I'm talking out of experience, then Kenru says, no, it's Ainsel and Jobuk that did this, you know. And I I just think there's there's a gap there. Jacques, he's he's to actually say they've given us a certificate to say that the system is correct and it works. But then What was it a local team or was it a No, no. And Jobuk. Yeah. But it's a brand new machine. So on our side where we haven't received the training, we let the machine works correctly. But then that paper that we are getting those field reports, they mean nothing. That's why even this UV 59, two days later, that machine activated. So I even said to say those field reports we are getting, the guys are just signing it off. Because even the foreman, William has actually picked up issues on the rigs. You guys come and work on it, the next day he doesn't over inspection. He actually checks there's issues there actually to be on the machines. So those reports they don't mean anything to us. The supervision is actually poor. Um the follow up from let's say management, Hans, everyone is actually poor. We we're not doing a good job on that one. Look um I'll apologize from my side to all of you. Um I think it's it's it's unacceptable. And saying that, I've been in this position now for three months and as we discussed it, I would like to bring in changes. Um these changes do take some time. That's why I'm going with a digital solution now to get pictures. So you guys can even do it. If my guys were done on the on the uh machine and you want to see the pictures or whatever, I'll give it to you. No problem. And then like I said, we we're implementing things like this, handbooks, so we're not getting these issues. But we're not getting the first monthly report. Okay. Can I just quickly address some like there's two things that that's concerning. I think it's obvious the the the fact that there's some question marks on whether the systems are working, right? So there should be a way to test the system without necessarily activating everything to to get the powder out. There's there's a way to do it. So I suppose you guys can do it like that. But then the issue of the canister and the calcification or whatever of the of the How are you going to check that? Okay. The only way to check it is to um I don't know what it is in English to to put the Oh, okay. Put it through a sieve. Yeah. We can the powder and put it back. Okay. But the guy who informed you that it's due to vibration, Ainsel designed the system not to compact. Okay. So the the the powder is very expensive powder, not like the normal. And the system has got a dip tube that will if if it's activated, it will go the gas will go down to the bottom of the tank and uplift the whole powder. Okay, to disturb it. Just Greg, what's concerning is again the the commissioning of new machines. And I remember this now. It was put in place that the system must actually be activated by them with that test with the with a cartridge. Cartridge, yeah. And I mean it seems like it's not work not being done. So can you please get get um Gerhard just to do that. I don't know who he reports to now, probably to Chris. To Chris, yeah. I know Tins activated. Yeah, that's what I remember. No, but Gerhard also does it. But you need We need to to to elevate this to to CAT, because we pay CAT for that. No, we're going to do that and I think we need to to have your team or you know, the guy on the on on a particular site, the new machines must also come through you. And and be tested on site. So, so just to come back, so we need to establish which machines are activating and which are not. We need to we need to make sure that that happens. And the second one is the person that needs to be there. So when when when are you going to get someone? Is there an interim plan to get someone on site that that is will be permanently on site. Okay. And and this person is experienced? Yeah, yeah. He's very experienced. Okay. I've chosen the most experienced guy for this. So then we'll have to then we need a report to to to tell us, you know, we've all the systems are are are healthy and they are activated. In other words, you need to do the test and verify that the system can activate and that the powder is not compacted. So we've received this from your offices um on um how can I say um issues, what's it called? rectifications that needs to take place. Um uh uh I've spoken to Quintin, my foreman, he's committed to closing that out before the 11th of November. So which is in two weeks time. Um just for the mind to also understand, we we do have difficulties with with backlogs due to the PO delay we had there. And you know again we had a PO delay this month. So for us it's also crucial to But are you still are you still on a are you on a contract still? But why is it, you know, delay? We don't have a contract yet. We haven't signed a contract yet. So we've So that the previous contract laps. Oh, okay, okay, okay. So we must get a monthly PO. Yeah, but that must And now some months we get the PO the 20th of the month. So As I told Greg, we're not supposed to work without a PO. Now we get the PO on the 20th of the month. So we've lost 20 days of the month. Now we're getting in the backlog. Okay, that's our concern. So, but I'll speak to you. We are in the process of this. I I know we did sign the contract last month. went through. I don't know if you've seen that. I haven't seen that. Okay. But I hope this was part of the scope now. Or we'll have to put an addendum. For what? You know, what is part of the scope? Well, what was part of the scope? Is it normal? It's just a monthly checklist. A monthly No, this this needs to be added and this is to So even we discussed it earlier the three-monthly rate for the Yeah. So that's why I say, I I did that. But I think we need to review the scope and put an addendum. I'll just find out where it is. But we cannot expect you guys to to put resources here and I'm saying it to you know, proper resources without a contract. So we will look at that. I don't expect that. But we expect your systems to work. Yeah, yeah. And and we we did discuss it at the last meeting. And Lawrence was going to to take it up. I think with five new we bought a bucky, I employed the staff not just to to show that we are committed and proactive. Understanding. So can I ask who's going to send me a mail? I think I'll assist with the contact side. Send me a mail of the scope um as it's going to be now. The these include the monthly and you know how many team and all of this. It needs to be in there. Okay. Just a mail on the scope. Yeah. And then but the scope needs to because that's the important thing. We need to get a contract in place. I'll I'll I'll drive that. But for now if the engineers can just make sure that the orders go through. All right. The month to month order. Asseblief. Um just on that previous issue that he raised. The ones that were giving problems, we need to have a report on what went wrong. We need to have that. Just give me the numbers. UV 59, RT 40. Sorry. 64. 64. 64. 64. Yeah. I need to know who did the report. Did they report it to Quintin, Hans or did they just report it to their helper? Can I can I get before Friday, a list of all our vehicles on your records with what systems they've got. Please. I think it might be me. Okay. I'm going to just. Okay. what happened was with the issues we had. We've identified a person, I'm not going to call names and I have suspended him. So that's pending my investigation and then the disciplinary action. So that's what I can say um without getting too legal or whatever. But uh we have taken action. 64 is a new cat. No, no. I haven't implemented the new cats, but that was ZC 181. Okay, but that's the one that was assembled. So they had take the cap off and and disconnected it. Yes. But before we actually start stripping it, that's the inspection that was done by. Okay. So you can't even get that. Okay. I'm going to just. I know they sent us photos and we sent Quintin there. But that was that was the same day when we had the meeting with you. Yeah, I remember that time. It was around that time. Yeah. Because that that machine came from Joburg. So I'll vote although Balala gave me the order. Yeah. At advance assembled it because the machines they um do all the fitments in in the assembly. So the machine just came here and Okay. but we going to put a rule that you will as Kenru must also sign it off. In other words, go through it, we commission it on site with you in attendance or Quintin and then sign it off. Get get a proper certificate. Okay, so yeah, we understand that we are in a ditch. We need to get out of the ditch. So, so there's some short term important, let's say priorities and that 22 those reports in terms of exactly what happened, uh HRC on those. Um, I'm just looking at the list. I think we discussed most of it, but uh office on site and the administrator is that done? The office is already on site. Yeah. But um it was put by I know Tinus he doesn't want it. Tinus yeah. So we need to to move it then. So our store container is in his yard. But when you put the office there, you say when you must move. So I have a meeting with Michael yesterday. Okay. He said within the next two weeks he'll move it to appropriate location. So he's got a different place for you. So he'll he'll sort that out. So But you can continue for for now, you you'll continue with the A-word. Yeah, we don't have electricity there. Yeah, he said he'll move the container, put electricity there. I've already employed the administrator. Um he's given notice on his side of the company, so he'll be starting within 30 days. And then we're busy um I've already bought the furniture and the Wi-Fi. We're talking to the service provider for installation. And just just a quick recap on the appointments. So that's the two additional teams there. You're waiting for us before continuing. Or have you already started? We already appointed there. We just waiting now for the police clearance. We're waiting for police clearance. So I've got two and then there's uh uh two guys I'm promoting now and then I have to replace them, but that will all that paperwork will be done tomorrow. Okay. So when when do you think we'll be fully staffed on site? My plan is depending on how fast they get through the mind systems that before end of November, they must all five technicians and five assistants must be there. Five technicians, five assistants. Good. The Okay. In November, fire prevention specialist consultant, MSDSA, uh start date Arman. That is a program that I have to discuss with Arman. Is it necessary for him to be a whole month here or must we maybe What I suggested to them, um if we service 22, the next month they come and inspect our work. So if they finish in a week's time, maybe it's fine. They can go back or how do you want it? I think that makes sense, because what we're trying to do is we have a third party to come and over inspect um the work that was done. So we'll do that maybe for six months or so and see how it goes. And if they give a positive report, then we can say, okay, we are good. And then we can spread it out, maybe do once a you know, once a year or something, just as a as a as another check. Yearly type of thing to to double check, but we we'll we'll talk about that. All right, so yeah, we can do it like that. So when can then they come? Or do you want first to have your team in place and then bring them in? let me speak to Henk. They've got actions now. They As far as I know, they But that at five day. They worked on the They worked for more than a month. Yeah. So, no, all I'm saying is, while we while we finalize the contract, uh the way it's been going, we'll just continue for now. But what I'm saying is where where used to put the whole team on, argument sake by 22, so we get an order from 22, then it was Okay. So now you want three orders. Now I want three orders, one per site. Okay. and Glodia. So you want another order from Glodia. Yeah. Yes, for now. For now. But they will yeah, for the repairs and it's going to take place. So let's say there's a detonation or you guys want to do it. You can do it yourself. So I think we're ready. We just want to know when it is and we can we can't be in here. Okay. So you guys are saying you will help us. Yeah. So this is nice to know. Um Okay, but what what you then must do is, 